---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

# About

OSSEC is a scalable, multi-platform, open source Host-based Intrusion
Detection System (HIDS). It has a powerful correlation and analysis
engine, integrating log analysis, file integrity checking, Windows
registry monitoring, centralized policy enforcement, rootkit detection,
real-time alerting and active response.It runs on most operating
systems, including Linux, OpenBSD, FreeBSD, MacOS, Solaris and Windows.
A list with all supported platforms is available here.

## OSSEC is free

OSSEC is a free software and will remain so in the future; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General
Public License (version 2) as published by the FSF – Free Software
Foundation. More details here.

## Awards and Reviews

The OSSEC project has received some pretty good awards/reviews in the
past. Check them out our Awards page.

## Easy to install

OSSEC is multi-platform and can be easily installed on most operating
systems. Just follow some of our Install guides if you need some help.

## Widely used

OSSEC is a growing project, with more than 5,000 downloads per month on
average. It is being used by ISPs, universities, governments and even
large corporate data centers as their main HIDS solution. In addition
to being deployed as an HIDS, it is commonly used strictly as a log
analysis tool, monitoring and analyzing firewalls, IDSs, web servers and
authentication logs.

## Active Development

OSSEC has a very active development, with a release cycle of every 3/4
months. Bugs and feature requests can be sent through our bugzilla
or mailing lists and we will do our best to solve them. If you are
interested in being a part of this project, we are always open to new
contributors. Check out our FAQ entry “How to start helping with the
project?” for more information.

## Commercial Support

If you need an enterprise-class commercial support for OSSEC, Trend
Micro, the company behind this great open source project, offers this
option to our users. For more information go to the OSSEC support page.
